---
date: 2021-03-20T13:00:00Z
---

# 🏳️‍⚧️

I'm a transgender woman. My name is Jesse Brooklyn Hannah; I go by Jesse,
Brooklyn, or (my favorite) Brooke; and my pronouns are she/her/hers. And I'm
still the same person I've always been, except I'm no longer wearing the
façade of a gender identity that was assigned to me based on my physical
body. It's wonderful to meet y'all again, and to finally do so as my true
self! 😄💕

You may have noticed some profile picture changes that I've made in various
places, but I'm making it officially public today. It also happens to be my
birthday, which was an intentional choice; it feels like an appropriate date
for opening a new chapter of recognizing and being recognized for who I am
and who I've been all along, albeit without being fully aware of it.[^1]

My egg actually cracked[^2] the day after Valentine's Day this year. The
groundwork had been laid over years and years: identifying with female
characters more than male characters in stories (video games, movies, books,
TV…), feeling like my body wasn't really my own, being uncomfortable with my
natural voice even after years of listening to it through podcasting, envying
a coworker (who I later learned was trans herself) whose self-confidence and
grace and assertiveness I felt like I could only ever dream of having,
wondering what it would be or have been like to grow up as a girl — including
aspects both good and bad. I didn't know at the time that these were all
strong signs of gender dysphoria.

But what finally shattered my eggshell was a webcomic, of all things[^3]. I
discovered webcomics in high school, and [Real Life Comics][] was a staple of
my RSS reader for years. Since having a family has taken up most of my time
and energy over the last six-ish years, I'd lost track of it along with most
of the others that had been regular reading, and hadn't so much as thought
about it for years until the [then-most recent page][] happened to come
across my Facebook feed. My first thought was, "oh hey, I remember that! Wait
a second, is that character's hair a plot device for a storyline, or…? No,
surely it couldn't be that."

I went into the archives, found the return of the comic from its most recent
hiatus, and started reading until I found the page from [June 29, 2020][]. I
read it, and I read and re-read the [tweet by @TransSalamander][] in it. And
someting snapped.

I immediately devoured the entire "Epiphany" storyline, and Mae's internal
dialogue resonated with me in ways I could never have imagined. I spent the
next three days in deeper introspection than I had ever experienced. I
started to recall and recognize countless moments in my life as having been
gender dysphoria, with even more still coming back to me every day. It was
like a background process had been running for 31 years, and was just waiting
for me to find the results in my subconscious; I found the comic on the night
of Monday, the 15th, and by Friday I had come to the realization that this is
the real me, the me that had been trying desperately to be heard for my
entire life.

I'd found Brooke, and she was the real me all along.

Coming out to myself, and getting ready to begin transitioning and coming out
to the rest of the world, hasn't been smooth. Gender dysphoria is real, and
it can wreck anywhere from an hour to a day to an entire week. Putting on a
dress for the very first time[^4] was absolutely euphoric, and I'm still
terrified of putting it on again after I take it off. The self-doubt of, "am
I really this way, or am I faking it? Will I be accepted by my family? the
trans community? my coworkers? society?" is always in the back of my mind.
The depression and anxiety and physiological stress of maintaining — there's
no other word for it — the lie of who I am, to myself and to the rest of the
world, don't go away overnight and have left me with emotional scars and
damage to my self-esteem that may take years to repair, even with living as
my authentic self.

But at the same time, the euphoria that accompanies every single girl-talk
chat with my old coworker or the new friends I've made in the online trans
community, every time my spouse and I pick out clothes for me or he teaches
me how to put on makeup, every time I find a cute new accessory, every time I
nail a sentence in a voice that feels so much more like my own, tells me more
than a lifetime's worth of dysphoria ever could. It helped me start a new job
as an out trans woman from day one. It helped me come out to my own family.
It reminds me that I'm still a huge nerd, that I'm still a massive sports
fan, that the things I love and that make me, me, have nothing to do with the
mask I had spent my whole life wearing and trying to play the part of. It's
how I know that this is who I really am.

I know that trans people, and trans women in particular, are subjected to
misunderstanding, prejudice, discrimination, and violence. I'm incredibly
privileged by virtue of being white and middle-class, and already having an
established career and a job working remotely, but I know that I'm still
taking a big risk by coming out. It's terrifying, and if my gender really
were a choice — a switch I could flip one way or the other at will — then of
course it would be easier to continue living as a cisgender man. That's the
thing, though: it's not a switch that can just be toggled on or off; not for
me, not for anyone. It's an incredibly deep and personal attribute on a vast
spectrum where everyone has their own space, whether it's a point that stays
put, or a point that moves, or a wide range all at once, or anything in
between. No one can decide or determine another's place on it; it's up to
each of us individually to discover where on it we reside.

And now that I've finally found my place, I feel happier, more peaceful, and
more alive than I ever have.

[^1]:
    And it's totally not because I don't want to have to remember another
    date as my coming-out "birthday," by which I mean it's totally because I
    don't want to have to remember another date as my coming-out "birthday."

[^2]:
    "Cracking the egg" is the colloquial term for a trans person realizing
    that they're trans, which may or may not necessarily correlate with them
    starting to come out to themselves. TikToker [@titan_of_joy][] has a
    [fantastic (and hilarious) video][] explaining it, with lots of
    incredible comments by other users with the stories of their own eggs
    cracking.

[^3]: But it is fitting, given that this is me that I'm talking about, here.
[^4]: [SKIRT GO SPINNY][]

[@titan_of_joy]: https://www.tiktok.com/@titan_of_joy
[fantastic (and hilarious) video]: https://www.tiktok.com/@titan_of_joy/video/6934463174582242566
[june 29, 2020]: https://www.reallifecomics.com/comic.php?comic=june-29-2020
[real life comics]: https://reallifecomics.com/
[skirt go spinny]: https://www.reddit.com/user/BolderBrooklyn/comments/m2564t/skirt_go_spinny/
[then-most recent page]: https://www.reallifecomics.com/comic.php?comic=february-12-2021
[tweet by @transsalamander]: https://twitter.com/transsalamander/status/947522372315369472
